Recipe library doc (#3329)
block/goose: documentation/docs/guides/recipes/storing-recipes.md

---

> title: Storing Recipes

Author: ```suggestion
title: Saving Recipes
```

:::

## Understanding Recipe Storage

Before saving recipes, it's important to understand where they can be stored and how this affects their availability.

### Recipe Storage Locations

| Type | Location | Availability | Best For |
|------|----------|-------------|----------|
| **Global** | `~/.config/goose/recipes/` | All projects and sessions | Personal workflows, general-purpose recipes |
| **Local** | `YOUR_WORKING_DIRECTORY/.goose/recipes/` | Only when working in that project | Project-specific workflows, team recipes |

**Choose Global Storage When:**
- You want the recipe available across all projects
- It's a personal workflow or general-purpose recipe
- You're the primary user of the recipe

**Choose Local Storage When:**
- The recipe is specific to a particular project
- You're working with a team and want to share the recipe
- The recipe depends on project-specific files or configurations

## Saving Recipes

<Tabs groupId="interface">
  <TabItem value="desktop" label="Goose Desktop" default>

**Save New Recipe:**
1. To create a recipe from your chat session, see: [Create Recipe from Session](/docs/guides/recipes/session-recipes#create-recipe)

> 2. Once in the Recipe Editor, click **"Save Recipe"** to save it to your Recipe Library

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Once in the Recipe Editor, click **Save Recipe** to save it to your Recipe Library
```

**Save Modified Recipe:**

If you're already using a recipe and want to save a modified version:

> 1. Click the **"⚙️"** (settings) button in the top right

Author: ```suggestion
1. Click the gear icon ⚙️ in the top right corner
```

> 1. Click the **"⚙️"** (settings) button in the top right

Reviewer: Do we want to stay consistent with the "click the gear icon ⚙️ in the top right corner" used in some other topics?

> 2. Click **"Save recipe"**

Reviewer: nit changes

3. Enter a name for the recipe
4. [Choose to save globally or locally](#recipe-storage-locations) to your current project
5. Click **"Save Recipe"**

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="cli" label="Goose CLI">

    When you [create a recipe](/docs/guides/recipes/recipe-reference), it gets saved to:

    * Your working directory by default: `./recipe.yaml`
    * Any path you specify: `/recipe /path/to/my-recipe.yaml`  
    * Local project recipes: `/recipe .goose/recipes/my-recipe.yaml`

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Finding Your Recipes

<Tabs groupId="interface">
  <TabItem value="desktop" label="Goose Desktop" default>

**Access Recipe Library:**

> 1. Click the `⚙️` (settings) button in the top right

Author: ```suggestion
1. Click the gear icon ⚙️ in the top right corner
```

2. Click **Recipe Library**
3. Browse your saved recipes in a list view
4. Each recipe shows its title, description, and whether it's global or local

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="cli" label="Goose CLI">

To find and configure your saved recipes:

**Browse recipe directories:**
```bash
# List recipes in default global location
ls ~/.config/goose/recipes/

# List recipes in current project
ls .goose/recipes/

# Search for all recipe files
find . -name "*.md" -path "*/recipes/*"
```

:::tip
Set up [custom recipe paths](/docs/guides/recipes/session-recipes#configure-recipe-location) to organize recipes in specific directories or access recipes from a shared GitHub repository.
:::

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Using Saved Recipes

<Tabs groupId="interface">
  <TabItem value="desktop" label="Goose Desktop" default>

> 1. Click the `⚙️` (settings) button in the top right

Author: ```suggestion
1. Click the gear icon ⚙️ in the top right corner
```
